The Azure Research Engagement project aims to change the paradigm for scholarly and scientific research by extending the power of the computer into the cloud. We build the 
components of cloud technology and work with researchers in the field on projects that push the frontier of client and cloud computing.We are pleased to announce the public 
release of NCBI BLAST on Windows Azure under a Microsoft Research License Agreement. Built on Windows Azure, this cloud-based implementation of NCBI’s Basic Local Alignment 
Search Tool (BLAST) searches all available sequence databases for similarities between a protein or DNA query and known sequences. BLAST on Windows Azure enables researchers
 to take advantage of the scalability of the Windows Azure platform to execute BLAST jobs on demand in the cloud. In addition to the release of this software, our team will 
 support its use and provide free access to the NCBI reference databases in Windows Azure.Microsoft has initiated a large project, called Venus-C, as part of the European 
 Commission FP7 funding program. Venus-C will demonstrate how Windows Azure can interoperate with other cloud platforms and the existing European science grid. In early 2011, 
 the Venus-C project will request up to 20 submissions of cloud platforms to use in this interoperability study. In addition, seven initial cloud platforms are currently being 
 ported to Windows Azure. This work will provide useful data to help facilitate interoperability among cloud platforms.The U.K. Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council 
 (EPSRC) is funding “digital hubs” to examine how new technologies can be used to enhance the quality of life for everyone. The emphasis is on developing innovative, inclusive 
 products and services. Microsoft is involved through an agreement with the Horizon project, which is the "digital economy hub" based at the University of Nottingham.INRIA is 
 France’s premier information technology research laboratory. The Microsoft Research-INRIA Joint Centre was founded by INRIA, Microsoft Corporation, and the Microsoft Research 
 Laboratory Cambridge to pursue fundamental, long-term research in formal methods, software security, and application of computer science research to the sciences. This agreement 
 creates a new INRIA-Microsoft collaboration area on the topic of cloud computing. 